Non functional updates (#443)
populationgenomics/talos: README.md

     * This includes checking for individual variants and compound-heterozygotes between multiple different variants.
   * If the variant is consistent with the MOI, the variant is retained for a final report.

## Installation

At this time the recommended way to use this tool is via Docker, building using the Dockerfile in this repository.

```commandline
docker build -t talos:5.5.3 .
```

## Input Data

To run Talos you will need:

1. Variant data, annotated with VEP

    * Talos uses Hail Query, a PySpark-based query engine, to perform highly parallelised analysis. this is done using a proprietary Hail MatrixTable format
    * If you have VEP-annotated VCF, a script is provided to convert this to a MatrixTable.

2. ClinVar data as generated by ClinvArbitration, both the `clinvar_decisions` and `clinvar_pm5` Hail Tables. This is
   available from
   the [ClinvArbitration Release Page](https://github.com/populationgenomics/ClinvArbitration/releases), or can be generated using the code and process described in the [ClinvArbitration repository](https://github.com/populationgenomics/ClinvArbitration).

> 3. A PED file, describing the pedigree of the participants in the study.

Author: yeah, I was thinking about splitting this whole section into PED + PhenoPackets. I don't know how many people are actually using phenopackets, but it's a defensible choice

  the Pedigree, and panel data from `QueryPanelapp`. Checks each categorised variant to determine whether the MOI
  associated with the relevant gene fits within the family structure where it occurs. Generates a JSON file from all
  variants which pass the MOI tests.
- `HPOFlagging` - Takes the results of `ValidateMOI`, and uses semsimian to test whether the HPO term(s) associated with the gene matches the HPO term(s) associated with the participant
- `CreateTalosHTML` - Generates a report from the results of the `ValidateMOI`.
- `GenerateSeqrFile` - Parses the result of `ValidateMOI`, generates a file for ingestion by Seqr.

[example_usage.sh](example_usage.sh) demonstrates a full execution of Talos. This should be worked up into a workflow language script, but this bash script should suffice as guidance.

## Categories

![CatDiagram](design_docs/images/Categories.png)

This is a highly simplified representation of the categories currently implemented. The code block

## ClinvArbitration

See the companion [ClinvArbitration](https://github.com/populationgenomics/ClinvArbitration) repository for more details.

> In Talos whenever we check for 'Pathogenic/Likely Pathogenic' in ClinVar, we use our in-house re-summary of ClinVar entries, not the standard ClinVar results. This re-aggregation of ClinVar submissions uses altered heuristics favouring decisions, instead of the default logic which cautiously assigns "conflicting interpretations of pathogenicity" unless there is perfect harmony among all submissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Talos uses ClinVar submissions to determine if a variant has been previously reported as Pathogenic or Likely Pathogenic. For the purpose of a Talos analysis, when multiple submissions for the same variant have conflicting classifications, we would prefer to favour the classifications provided by high-quality recent submitters. To enable this, we have ClinvArbitration, a re-aggregation of ClinVar submissions uses altered heuristics favouring decisions. This avoids the the default logic used by clinvar which cautiously assigns "conflicting interpretations of pathogenicity" unless there is perfect harmony among all submissions.
```

> As well as using the top-line rating, we also annotate the pathogenic SNVs with VEP, and then re-index the results on `Protein & Codon`. This enables us to assign a `PM5` evidence category to missense variants - "a missense variant at this same codon is pathogenic in clinvar'. This is the basis of the `PM5` category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to providing the top-line rating, ClinvArbitration also re-indexes ClinVar variants based on the transcript and codon they alter. Talos uses this table to identify any missense variants impacting a codon previously reported to be altered by a pathogenic variant in ClinVar and assign the `PM5` evidence category.
```

> Resources to do this are periodically updated in the ClinvArbitration repository's Release page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ClinvArbitration is used to re-process ClinVar releases periodically and the ready-to-use results are available via the ClinvArbitration repository's Release page.
```
